# Apperture #

Apperture is a secure web portal for protecting web applications. It takes the form of a docker-compose configuration and is merely the combination of several excellent open source containers.

## Preqrequisites 

To deploy this project, you will need a domain name. 
We suggest cloudflare for registering domains but many other services are available.

For local development, you can use the domain `localtest.me` which resolves to your local machine.

To run Apperture, you will need:
- Docker
- Docker-compose

## Getting started

### Create env file

Copy the template file to the correct name (note leading .)

```shell
cp env.template .env
nano .env
```

Edit URL to your desired value: a real domain name or `localtest.me` for local development.

```diff
- URL=foobar.org
+ URL=mylovelydomain.org
```

```diff
- PROXY_USER=an_email_address@foo.bar
+ PROXY_USER=your_email@domain.org
```

### Setup the environment and obtain admin credentials

```shell
./generate_passwords.sh
```

The script will print admin credentials, that you will need to setup users and routes in the proxy.

```shell
Generating ...
Generating ...
Generating ...

## Save these for later!! (or rerun the script to view them again) ##

# Account for the portal and to add users:
LLDAP admin credentials:
  User: admin
  Pass: kGb6eX8M4oVjd2WeKzGaK3NYTyz29eLmqUvX78JqfTnev9cEQNG9yWsV2w4QfWs88yLxnvj9
  
# Account for administraing the proxy:
 Proxy credentials:
  User: your_email@domain.org
  Pass: HdGYNdaJ1GhxWMOm8Nr2rAaITh3sQSfSpz5SXFbFqpW9DjqbtumQOcJfywfVc57x
```

**Securly save these credientials for later** 
We suggest using a password manger. 

### Launch apperture

```shell
docker compose up
```

## Tutorial

This tutorial will guide you through the process of setting up a secure web portal using Apperture, on your local machine.

### First steps - Setup the environment

#### Clone the repository

```shell
git clone git@github.com:UoMResearchIT/apperture.git
cd apperture
```

#### Create the environment file

```shell
cp env.template .env
nano .env
```

Edit the URL to `localtest.me` for local development.

```diff
- URL=foobar.org
+ URL=localtest.me
```

And remember to set the `PROXY_USER` to your email address.

#### Generate passwords

Now, we run the script to generate passwords.

```shell
./generate_passwords.sh
```

The script will print the admin credentials, which you will need to setup users and routes in the proxy, save these for later.

#### Launch apperture

With the configuration in place, we can now launch apperture.

To launch the apperture, run:

```shell
docker compose up
```

and wait for the services to start.

#### View the proxy interface

Go to [localtest.me:81](localtest.me:81) and login with the email address you set in the `.env` file and the password generated by the script.

Here you can see the routes which come pre-configured with Apperture and navigate to them if you wish.

However, there is a significant problem with the current setup. The proxy is not set up to use SSL and therefore (secure) connections are impossible.

#### Add SSL certificates to the proxy

When you speified `localtest.me` as the URL, the script generated a self-signed certificate for you. You can find it in the project directory.

To add the certificate to the proxy, you need to navigate to the `SSL Certificates` tab in the proxy interface and upload the certificate and key.

Add `localtest.me+3.pem` to the certificate box and `localtest.me+3-key.pem` to the key box.

#### Update the routes

Now you can apply the SSL certificates to the routes. On the `Hosts` tab, click on the three vertical dots of the `whoami` route and click on `Edit`.

Here you can select the `SSL` tab and select the certificate you uploaded earlier.

Now do this for the `authelia` and `users` routes.

#### Access the routes

Now we can access the routes! Got to [whoami.localtest.me](whoami.localtest.me) and you should be challenged with a login screen.

Here you can use the `admin` credentials generated by the script to login.

Once you have logged in, you can see the details of the request that was made to the `whoami` service.

You now have a secure web portal running on your local machine!

#### Add a user

You will want more than just the admin user to be able to access the portal. To add a user, go to [users.localtest.me](users.localtest.me) and login with the LDAP admin credentials generated by the script.

Once logged in, you can add a user with the `Create a user` button.

## How to

### Configure the proxy

#### Setup your first route
Go to [localhost:81](localhost:81) and login with the default credentials: 
- admin@example.com
- changeme
  
Update the credentials to some that suit you.

Click on the menu "Hosts" and then "Proxy Hosts". Add a Proxy Host:
- Add a full domain name (subdomain and domain) to the Domain Name box:
  ```
  whoami.mylovelydomain.org
  ```
- set the Forward Hostname to
  ```
  apperture-whoami
  ```
- Use the port
  ```
  80
  ```

#### Setup Authelia
Add another proxy host:
- Add a subdomain:
  ```
  authelia.mylovelydomain.org
  ```
- Set the Forward Hostname to
  ```
  apperture-authelia
  ```
- Use the port
  ```9091```
- In the "Advanced" tab, paste:
    ```
    location / {
        include /snippets/proxy.conf;
        proxy_pass $forward_scheme://$server:$port;
    }
    ```
    
#### Protect the route
Click on the three vertical dots of the `whoami` route and click on "Edit".
In the "Advanced" tab, paste:
```
include /snippets/authelia-location.conf;
location / {
    include /snippets/proxy.conf;
    include /snippets/authelia-authrequest.conf;
    proxy_pass $forward_scheme://$server:$port;
}
```

#### Setup the user-admin site
Add another proxy host:
- Add a subdomain, for example
  ```
  users.mylovelydomain.org
  ```
- Set the Forward Hostname to
  ```
  apperture-ldap
  ```
- Use the port
  ```
  17170
  ```
- In the "Advanced" tab, paste:
    ```
    include /snippets/authelia-location.conf;
    location / {
        include /snippets/proxy.conf;
        include /snippets/authelia-authrequest.conf;
        proxy_pass $forward_scheme://$server:$port;
    }
    ```
Go to `users.mylovelydomain.org` and login with the LLDAP admin credentials.
Add a non-admin user.

### Use with cloudflare tunnels

#### Remove exposed ports 

Comment the exposed ports in the docker-compose file:
```diff
- - '80:80' # Public HTTP Port
- - '443:443' # Public HTTPS Port
+ # - '80:80' # Public HTTP Port
+ # - '443:443' # Public HTTPS Port
```

Now restart apperture:

```shell
docker compose down
docker compuse up
```

#### Set up tunnels on Cloudflare

- Login to cloudflare.
- On the side menu, select "Zero Trust".
- Create a team name and subscribe to the free plan
- Click on "Networks" and then "Tunnels".
- Click on "Add a Tunnel".
- Select cloudflared as the connector.
- Choose a name for the tunnel, and save it.
- Click on your tunnel.
- Click on "Configure".
- In "Choose your environment", select "Docker".
- Copy the code in the "Install and run a connector" box. It includes the token after the flag `--token`.

Now save the token into a file `config/cloudflared/.secret_token` in your project.:

```shell
mkdir -p config/cloudflared/
echo  config/cloudflared/.secret_token
```

The file should look like this:
```
TUNNEL_TOKEN=your_token
```

Add the cloudflared service to your docker-compose file.
A standard configuration would look like this:
```
services:

  cloudflared:
    image: cloudflare/cloudflared:latest
    container_name: mylovelyproject-cloudflared
    restart: unless-stopped
    env_file:
      - ./config/cloudflared/.secret_token
    command:
      tunnel --no-autoupdate run
    networks:
      apperture:
```

You can now launch the cloudflared service with `docker-compose up -d cloudflared`.

**Note**: Each domain you add to cloudflare also needs to be added in the proxy, and protected in the "Advanced" tab (See the [Protect the Route](#protect-the-route) section).

#### Add hostnames to cloudflare

You will now be able to add Public Hostnames.

- Go to the tunnels page
- Add a public hostname
  - **Subdomain:** whoami
  - **Domain:** mylovelydomain.org
  - **Service Type:** HTTP
  - **URL:** apperture-proxy

Using your domain (`mylovelydomain.org`), add the subdomains necessary for apperture (see the [Configure the proxy](#configure-the-proxy) section):
- `whoami`
- `authelia`
- `users`
In all three cases, make sure you select `http` for the type, and `apperture-proxy` for the url. You may leave the path empty.

## Troubleshooting

### Authelia doesn't start due to NTP failures

In the docker compose config for the Authelia service, add two environment variables:

```yaml
AUTHELIA_NTP_DISABLE_STARTUP_CHECK: True
AUTHELIA_NTP_DISABLE_FAILURE: True
```

## Explaination

## Reference
